.TH CTX-CLIP 1 "March 2026" "ctx-clip 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ctx-clip \- copy text files from a directory tree into one clipboard payload
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ctx-clip
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIdirectory ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ctx-clip
walks a directory tree (tree-inspired), collects only files that look like text,
formats them as:

.nf
path/to/file:
<contents>
.fi

and copies the combined payload to the clipboard.
Hidden files are skipped by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-L " " \fIlevel\fR
Maximum depth. \-1 means unlimited. 0 means only the root directory.
.TP
.BR \-I " " \fIpattern\fR
Exclude files/directories matching pattern. Repeatable. Alternates may be separated by '|'.
.TP
.BR \-P " " \fIpattern\fR
Include only files matching pattern. Repeatable. Alternates may be separated by '|'.
.TP
.B \-a
Include hidden files and directories.
.TP
.B \-l
Follow symlinked directories.
.TP
.B \-x
Stay on the same filesystem as the root.
.TP
.B \-f
Use full paths in file headers.
.TP
.B \-\-print
Also print the payload to stdout (clipboard is still written unless \-\-no-clipboard is used).
.TP
.B \-\-no-clipboard
Do not write to the clipboard; print the payload to stdout instead.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Suppress payload output (summary still printed).
.TP
.BI \-\-ctx " PATH"
Load config from PATH.
.TP
.B \-\-expand-ctx
Expand matched files using directory-local \fB.ctx\fR mappings.
.TP
.B \-\-no-ctx
Ignore any .ctx file.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH PATTERNS
Patterns are "smart":
.TP
.B *.json
Glob (matches file names/paths)
.TP
.B node_modules
Literal path segment match
.TP
.B re:REGEX
Raw regular expression match against the relative path
.SH CTX FILE
If a \fB.ctx\fR file exists in the current directory, it is loaded unless \fB--no-ctx\fR is used.
Keys include \fBinclude\fR, \fBexclude\fR, \fBmax-depth\fR, \fBhidden\fR, \fBclipboard\fR, and \fBprint\fR.
.PP
Mapped context directives are also supported:
.IP
\fBcontext <target-pattern> <related-file> [more-related-files...]\fR
.IP
\fBcontext <target-pattern> => <related-file> [more-related-files...]\fR
.PP
When \fB--expand-ctx\fR is enabled, \fBctx-clip\fR looks for a \fB.ctx\fR file in the same directory as each matched file, expands related files recursively, and warns instead of aborting if a mapped file is missing.
.SH CLIPBOARD
Tries clipboard tools in this order: wl-copy, xclip, xsel, pbcopy, clip.exe.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success. Non-zero on errors (including clipboard failure when enabled).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tree (1),
.BR xclip (1),
.BR wl-copy (1)
